=======================
 Contributing to Argos
=======================

One can install dependencies and configure pre-commit hooks in a
dedicated virtual Python environment using ``poetry``::

  $ poetry shell
  $ poetry install --with=dev
  $ poetry run pre-commit install

Pre-commit hooks run ``mypy`` check and make sure code is properly
formatted (using ``black`` and ``isort``).

Build and run from sources (using Flatpak)
==========================================

Clone the source repository, then build and install for current user
(You may have to install the expected runtime, but Flatpak will warn
you about that)::

  $ flatpak-builder --user --install --force-clean builddir io.github.orontee.Argos.json

Then to start the application use your desktop environment launcher,
or from a shell run::

  $ flatpak run io.github.orontee.Argos

Note that the Python interpreter of the Flatpak environment is CPython
3.10.

Debugging
---------

One can run a shell in sandbox and call the application through
``pdb``::

  $ flatpak run --devel --command=sh io.github.orontee.Argos
  [ðŸ“¦ io.github.orontee.Argos ~]$ G_MESSAGES_DEBUG=all python3 -m pdb /app/bin/argos --debug

It's also worth reading `GTK documentation on interactive debugging
<https://docs.gtk.org/gtk3/running.html#interactive-debugging>`_.

Build DEB package
=================

A DEB package *for current HEAD* can be build using a Docker image::

  $ VERSION=$(poetry version --short)
  $ mkdir -p builddir; rm -rf builddir/argos-${VERSION}
  $ git archive --prefix=builddir/argos-${VERSION}/ \
                --format=tar.gz HEAD | tar xzf -
  $ buildah bud -t argos-build .
  $ podman run --rm \
               -v ${PWD}:/src \
               -e VERSION=${VERSION} \
               argos-build \
               bash -c "cd /src/builddir/argos-${VERSION} && debuild -b -tc -us -uc"

The package is created in the `builddir/` directory.

*For a given version*, identified through a Git tag, one can use the
same Docker image and container call but on the right archive; For
example, for the most recent tagged version::

  $ VERSION=$(git tag -l --sort=-creatordate | head -n 1 | cut -c 2-)
  $ mkdir -p builddir; rm -rf builddir/argos-${VERSION}
  $ git archive --prefix=builddir/argos-${VERSION}/ \
                --format=tar.gz v${VERSION} | tar xzf -
  $ podman run --rm \
               -v ${PWD}:/src \
               -e VERSION=${VERSION} \
               argos-build \
               bash -c "cd /src/builddir/argos-${VERSION} && debuild -b -tc -us -uc"

Install the required dependencies listed in the `Containerfile
</Containerfile>`_ to build without using containers.

Dependencies
============

Python runtime dependencies can be added using ``poetry add``. Once
the code is ready, one must update two files used respectively for
Flatpak and DEB packaging.

* Flatpak builder install runtime dependencies described in the file
  `pypi-dependencies.yaml </pypi-dependencies.yaml>`_.

  It can be updated from poetry lock file in two steps using
  `flatpak-builder-tools
  <https://github.com/flatpak/flatpak-builder-tools>`_::

    $ poetry export --format=requirements.txt > requirements.txt
    $ flatpak-pip-generator --runtime=org.gnome.Sdk//46 \
                            --requirements-file=requirements.txt \
                            --yaml --output=pypi-dependencies

  Note that one may have to reorder dependencies and switch to
  different sources depending on what is available in the runtime to
  build packages.

* DEB packages define runtime dependencies from the `debian/control
  </debian/control>`_ file.

Build dependencies are listed in the `Containerfile </Containerfile>`_.

Dependencies are locked from Poetry point of view. In order to list
possible dependencies updates run ``poetry show --latest
--top-level``.

Tests
=====

Tests are implemented using the ``unittest`` framework from the
standard library. Thus to run all tests one can execute the following
command::

  $ poetry run python -m unittest discover tests/

For coverage reporting::

  $ poetry run coverage run -m unittest discover tests/
  $ poetry run coverage report

To run tests with a specific version of Python, say 3.11::

  $ buildah bud -t argos-dev --target dev .
  $ podman run --rm --env PYTHON_VERSION=3.11 -v ${PWD}:/opt/argos argos-dev \
           bash -c 'pushd /opt/argos/ && eval "$(pyenv init -)" && pyenv install -v ${PYTHON_VERSION} && export PYENV_VERSION=${PYTHON_VERSION} && poetry env use ${PYENV_VERSION} && poetry install --no-interaction --with=dev && poetry run python3 -m unittest discover tests/'

Release
=======

First, update project version with::

  $ poetry run ./scripts/update-version

Review, complete or update the suggested changes carefully; Make sure
translations and screenshots are up-to-date. Commit, tag and push with::

  $ git commit -a -m "Update to version $(poetry version --short)"
  $ git tag $(poetry version --short)
  $ git push origin; git push --tags origin

Use ``flatpak-builder`` to build locally and Github actions to build a
DEB package.

Make a pull request to the technical repository
`flathub/io.github.orontee.Argos
<https://github.com/flathub/io.github.orontee.Argos>`_ to publish the
release through Flathub.

Finally, run the following command to commit version bump for next
release::

  $ poetry run ./scripts/prepare-next-release

Architecture
============

Part of the architecture is documented using `Structurizr DSL
<https://github.com/structurizr/dsl/>`_ and adopt `C4 model
<https://c4model.com/>`_ for visualizing software architecture.

More details here: `Architecture </docs/architecture.rst>`_.

Updating architecture diagrams
------------------------------

To validate, export, etc. files using `Structurizr DSL
<https://github.com/structurizr/dsl/>`_, one must uses the
`Structurizr CLI <https://github.com/structurizr/cli/>`_. For example,
to export to SVG format (with Graphviz installed)::

  pushd docs
  podman pull --quiet structurizr/cli:latest
  podman run -it --rm -v $PWD:/usr/local/structurizr structurizr/cli export -workspace workspace.dsl -format dot
  for DOT_FILE in *.dot; do dot -Tsvg ${DOT_FILE} -o $(basename ${DOT_FILE} .dot | cut -d'-' -f2-).svg; done

Screenshots
===========

Since Argos is distributed through Flathub some restrictions apply to
screenshots (size, ratio, padding, etc.). The build will check those
restrictions for the URLs in the screenshots section of the `AppStream
metadata file <../data/io.github.orontee.Argos.appdata.xml.in>`_.

Thus one must push new image to a dedicated branch, update the URLs,
and build for new images to be checked.

To remove horizontal padding and resize to 900px width with
`ImageMagick <https://imagemagick.org/index.php>`_ installed::

  mkdir docs/cleaned_image
  pushd docs/cleaned_image
  for IMG_FILE in ../*.png; do
    convert ${IMG_FILE} -fuzz 1% -trim +repage -resize 900\> $(basename ${IMG_FILE});
  done
